Edits to the remaining index pages as part of site review (#205)
pinot-contrib/pinot-docs: basics/indexing/text-search-support.md

| Prefix Query               | TEXT\_MATCH (\<column\_name>, 'stream\*')             |
| Regex Query                | TEXT\_MATCH (\<column\_name>, '/Exception.\*/')       |

## Current restrictions

> Currently we support text search in a restricted manner. More specifically, we have the following constraints:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pinot supports text search with the following requirements:
```

* The column type should be STRING.
* The column should be single-valued.

> * Co-existence of text index with other Pinot indexes is currently not supported.

Reviewer: Is there a distinction between "text index" and "text search"? Either way, we'll want to clarify.

WHERE TEXT_MATCH(QUERY_LOG_COL, '"timestamp between" AND "group by"')
```

Read on for concrete examples on each kind of query and step-by-step guides covering how to write text search queries in Pinot.

{% hint style="info" %}
A column in Pinot can be dictionary-encoded or stored RAW. In addition, we can create an inverted index and/or a sorted index on a dictionary-encoded column.

The text index is an addition to the type of **per-column indexes** users can create in Pinot. However, it only supports text index on a RAW column, not a dictionary-encoded column.
{% endhint %}

## Enable a text index

> Enable a text index on a column in the [table configuration](../../configuration-reference/table.md) by adding a new section with the name "fieldConfigList".

Reviewer: [table configuration](../../configuration-reference/table.md) 
^^ good one to search and replace globally

]
```

Each column that has a text index should also be specified as `noDictionaryColumns` in `tableIndexConfig`:

```json
"tableIndexConfig": {
   "noDictionaryColumns": [
     "text_col_1",
     "text_col_2"
 ]}
```

> You can configure text indexes when:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can configure text indexes in the following scenarios:
```

* Adding a new table with text index enabled on one or more columns.
* Adding a new column with text index enabled to an existing table.
* Enabling a text index on an existing column.

{% hint style="info" %}

> When you're using a text index, you should add the indexed column to the `noDictionaryColumns` columns list to reduce unnecessary storage overhead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you're using a text index, add the indexed column to the `noDictionaryColumns` columns list to reduce unnecessary storage overhead.
```

For instructions on that configuration property, see the [Raw value forward index](forward-index.md#raw-value-forward-index) documentation.
{% endhint %}

## Text index creation

Once the text index is enabled on one or more columns through a table configuration, segment generation code will automatically create the text index (per column).

Text index is supported for both offline and real-time segments.

### Text parsing and tokenization

The original text document (denoted by a value in the column that has text index enabled) is parsed, tokenized and individual "indexable" terms are extracted. These terms are inserted into the index.

> Pinot's text index is built on top of Lucene. Lucene's **standard english text tokenizer** generally works well for most classes of text. Since it can be desirable to build a custom text parser and tokenizer to suit particular user requirements this can be made configurable for the user to specify on per column text index basis.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pinot's text index is built on top of Lucene. Lucene's **standard english text tokenizer** generally works well for most classes of text. To build a custom text parser and tokenizer to suit particular requirements, this can be made configurable for the user to specify on per column text index basis.
```

Reviewer: Curious what can be made configurable and/or what the user can specify per column?
not clear what is a text index basis....

There is a default set of "stop words" built in Pinot's text index. This is a set of high frequency words in English that are excluded for search efficiency and index size, including:

```csv
"a", "an", "and", "are", "as", "at", "be", "but", "by", "for", "if", "in", "into", "is", "it",
"no", "not", "of", "on", "or", "such", "that", "the", "their", "then", "than", "there", "these", 
"they", "this", "to", "was", "will", "with", "those"
```

> Any occurrence of these words in will be ignored by the tokenizer during index creation and search.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Any occurrence of these words will be ignored by the tokenizer during index creation and search.
```

WHERE text_match(SKILLS_COL, '/.*Exception/')
```

The above query will match any text document containing "exception".

### Deciding Query Types

> Combining phrase and term queries using Boolean operators and grouping allows you to build a complex text search query expression.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Combining phrase and term queries using Boolean operators and grouping lets you build a complex text search query expression.
```
